Introduce 1.12 release notes and upgrade notes (#10459)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.12.x/announcing-1.12/_index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.12
linktitle: 1.12
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.12 release announcement.
publishdate: 2021-11-16
release: 1.12.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.12
    - /news/announcing-1.12.0
---

> We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.12!

Reviewer: Let us mention and highlight release mgrs for 1.12 here!

{{< relnote >}}

This is the last release of 2021. We would like to thank the entire Istio community.

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.12.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.18.0` to `1.22.0`.
{{< /tip >}}

> Here are some of the highlights of the release:

Reviewer 2: I am working on a commit on this doc, if you plan to add to the blog feel free to message me to make sure we don't have duplicates

Reviewer 3: We'll also need to update data/args.yaml with the supported versions.

Reviewer 3: Also: istio.io/istio.io/content/en/docs/releases/supported-releases/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.12
linktitle: 1.12
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.12 release announcement.

> publishdate: 2021-11-16

Reviewer 3: Date needs updating

release: 1.12.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.12
    - /news/announcing-1.12.0
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.12!

{{< relnote >}}

This is the last release of 2021. We would like to thank the entire Istio community, and especially the release managers [Daniel Grimm](https://github.com/dgn) from Red Hat and [Kenan O'Neal](https://github.com/Kmoneal) from Aspen Mesh, for helping to get 1.12.0 published.

{{< tip >}}

> Istio 1.12.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.18` to `1.22`.

Reviewer 3: Note my earlier comment we also need to update the supported versions in data/args.yaml and istio.io/istio.io/content/en/docs/releases/supported-releases/index.md.

> Istio 1.12.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.18.0` to `1.22.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Istio 1.12.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.18` to `1.22`.
```

{{< /tip >}}

Here are some of the highlights of the release:

## WebAssembly API

[WebAssembly](/docs/concepts/wasm/) has been an important project, in development for [over 3 years](/blog/2020/wasm-announce/), to bring advanced extensibility to Istio, by allowing users to dynamically load custom-built extensions at runtime.
However, until now, configuring WebAssembly plugins has been experimental and hard to use.

In Istio 1.12, we have improved this experience by adding a first-class API to configure WebAssembly plugins: [WasmPlugin](/docs/reference/config/proxy_extensions/wasm-plugin/).

With `WasmPlugin`, you can easily deploy custom plugins to individual proxies, or even the entire mesh.

The API is currently in alpha and evolving. [Your feedback](/get-involved/) is appreciated!

## Telemetry API

> In Istio 1.11, the start of the brand new [`Telemetry` API](/docs/reference/config/telemetry/) to bring a standardized API to configure tracing, logging, and metrics in Istio.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Istio 1.11, we introduced a brand new [`Telemetry` API](/docs/reference/config/telemetry/) to bring a standardized API to configure tracing, logging, and metrics in Istio.
```

In 1.12, we continued work in this direction, expanding support for configuring metrics and access logging to the API.

To get started, check out the docs:

> <!-- TODO links once docs merge -->

Reviewer 3: @howardjohn The PR has merged.

> <!-- TODO links once docs merge -->

Author: Put up links, please correct me if these are old or I mistook them

* Telemetry API overview
* Tracing
* Metrics
* Access Logging

The API is currently in alpha and evolving. [Your feedback](/latest/get-involved/) is appreciated!

## Helm support

Istio 1.12 features a number of improvements to our [Helm installation support](/docs/setup/install/helm/), and paves the path for the feature to graduate to beta in the future.

An official Helm repository has been published to further simplify on-boarding, resolving one of the [most popular GitHub feature requests](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7505).
Check out the new [getting started](/docs/setup/install/helm/#prerequisites) instructions for more information.

These charts can also be found at the [ArtifactHub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?org=istio).

In addition, a new refined [`gateway` chart](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/istio-official/gateway) has been published.

> This chart replaces the old `istio-ingressgateway` and `istio-egressgateway` charts to greatly simplify management of gateways and follow Helm best practices.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This chart replaces the old `istio-ingressgateway` and `istio-egressgateway` charts to greatly simplify management of gateways and follow Helm best practices. Please visit the gateway injection page for issues migrating to the new helm chart.
```

> This chart replaces the old `istio-ingressgateway` and `istio-egressgateway` charts to greatly simplify management of gateways and follow Helm best practices. Please visit the gateway injection page for issues migrating to the new helm chart.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This chart replaces the old `istio-ingressgateway` and `istio-egressgateway` charts to greatly simplify management of gateways and follow Helm best practices. Please visit the gateway injection page for instructions migrating to the new helm chart.
```
